---
layout: post
title: 3TB HDD for $129.99!?
tagline: Yep.
category: [tutorials]
tags: [hardware, tutorial]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Wouldn't having a 3 *tera*-byte hard drive be awesome?
The answer is yes.

So how do you obtain one without spending a lot of money?

Well, you still have to spend money, but follow the guide in this post and you'll save some money and it only takes about 10 minutes.

[Click here](http://www.amazon.com/Seagate-Barracuda-3-5-Inch-Internal-ST3000DM001/dp/B005T3GRLY) to see the hard drive you will end up with.

Sata 6gb/s, 7200 rpm, 3tb, not bad.. but it costs $160. So how do you get it for $129.99?

Well, this may require a bit of luck and depends on where you're located. In my case, Costco had a whole bunch of [Seagate GoFlex Desk 3tb](http://www.amazon.com/New-Seagate-FreeAgent-STAC3000102-External/dp/B0071MZ1UO) external hard drives in stock for $129.99. This is what you have to disassemble to get the hard drive. As an added bonus, you get a USB 3.0 to sata hard drive connector (though I have yet to test it with another hard drive).

How to disassemble a Seagate GoFlex Desk 3tb external hard drive
----------------------------------------------------------------
__Warning!__ *This will void your warranty. Proceed with caution!*

__Another warning!__ *You may have to reformat the drive before it is usable so do __NOT__ perform this on a drive you have important data on!*

1. Obtain a Seagate GoFlex Desk external hdd
    {% assign image_id = "vOoEx" %}
    {% assign alt_text = "Seagate GoFlex Desk" %}
    {% include image %}

2. Unbox it
    {% assign image_id = "8A1Oj" %}
    {% assign alt_text = "Unboxed GoFlex Desk" %}
    {% include image %}

3. Pry a knife or other thin metal object under the piece of plastic with the SeaGate logo.
    This requires a medium amount of force and you will hear cracking as some of the plastic tabs will snap off.
    {% assign image_id = "dT2OJ" %}
    {% assign alt_text = "Knife opening GoFlex" %}
    {% include image %}

4. This next part requires a lot of force and you will hear loud cracking noises as the plastic tabs come undone. Make sure you are prying off the side opposite of the connectors (see the picture). As you can tell by the picture and the dented plastic, this takes a bit of effort.
    {% assign image_id = "bdpuZ" %}
    {% assign alt_text = "Where to pry the knife" %}
    {% include image %}
    {% assign image_id = "BbUEf" %}
    {% assign alt_text = "When it finally cracks open" %}
    {% include image %}
    Once you get the bottom corner open like this, the rest just comes apart pretty easily by pulling it apart.

5. The hard part is over. Now you just need to remove the hard drive from the plastic enclosure. It isn't glued or anything but it's held in pretty tight by some black rubber shock absorbers. I just held it upside down and smacked it a few times until it came out. It took a good amount of force, but not as much as cracking the case open.
    {% assign image_id = "83gpl" %}
    {% assign alt_text = "Hard drive still in the case" %}
    {% include image %}

6. Once you get the hard drive out of the case, the only thing remaining is peeling off the rubber shock absorbers and unscrewing the screws.
    {% assign image_id = "cpqyn" %}
    {% assign alt_text = "Hard drive outside the case" %}
    {% include image %}

7. It is now ready to be put in a desktop.
    {% assign image_id = "I7SBD" %}
    {% assign alt_text = "Hard drive ready to be put in a computer" %}
    {% include image %}

###Notes:

*  I discovered this a few months ago when the prices online were at least $50 more than what I was finding in stores. It seems that now the online prices have started to match the prices I've been finding in stores. However, at the time of writing, it's still cheaper to buy in a store than it is online; plus you get it instantly and there is no shipping costs :)

*  The USB3.0 connector should be able to work with any sata hard drive now. I have yet to test it out though. If you try it out, let me know and I'll post an update with the results.